# Project-1: Teen Pregnancies and School Funding

### Group 14 (Jose Gonzalez, William Nzoiwu, Luis Rivera) 

## Introduction
We wanted to focus on healthcare so our project is on how teen pregnancies are affected by school fundign. To start we want to see how pregnancies varied with in the ages of 15 to 17  and 18 to 19. We wanted to know the states that had the most school spending and the least school spending. We also want to do the same with teen birth rates per state. With this, we can see if there are any patterns between these the best-performing states and patterns with the worst-performing states. Then we want to see if there is a correlation, the data we want to use comes from the CDC and the census databases. Going into the project, we are expecting to find a negative correlation between teen births and school funding, as in we expect to see a higher birth rate among states with less funding.

## Data Sources
We used 2 csv files as the data sources for our project, one detailing the amount of births from 15-19 year olds in the US by state from the year 2019, the other one detailiing the funds set aside for education by state in 2019. The first file was taken from the CDC website, and the second one from a survey done by the United States Census Bureau, titled the Annual Survey of School System Finances.

## Questions
The three questions we sought out to answer from our dataset were:
1. Which age range saw a higher percentage of births in teens? As in, were births more frequent from 15-17 year olds, or 18-19 year olds?
2. Which states had the highest and lowest teen births rate? Similarly, which states had the highest and lowest amount of school funding?
3. Does there appear to be a relationship between a state's teen birth rate and the amount of school funding they receive?

## Process and Findings
### Question 1
To answer the first question, we made a dataframe which labeled the amount of births for all teens aged 15-19 in the US, while also giving the amount of births for specifically 15-17, and then 18-19 year olds. From there we took the number of births from 15-17 yr olds along with the number of births from 18-19 yr olds and put them into a pie chart to give us the percentages. From there, we found that of the 171,000 births from 15-19 yr olds in the US in 2019, 23.9% were from 15-17 yr olds, while the remaining 76.1% were from 18-19 yr olds. This is what we expected to find as older teens tend to be more sexually active.

### Question 2
To answer the second question, we created a dataframe from the teen births csv detailing the birth rate for 15-19 yr olds in each state (# of births per 1,000 births). From there, we organized the data in descending order by birth rate to see which states had the highest birth rate, and then organized it in ascending order to see which states had the lowest. Using this data, we made two bar graphs, one showing the birth rates for the 5 states with the highest birth rates, and another for the 5 states with the lowest birth rates. Similarly we took the data from the school funding csv and organized it into a data frame. From there we arranged the values in descending order by total expenditure to see which states spend the most money on education. Whe then did the same thing in descending otder to get the states that spend the least on education. We then made 2 more bar graphs, showing the 5 states with the most school funding and the 5 states with the least school funding.
When inspecting how different states distribute their funds see that California, New York and Texas have the highest amount of school spending showing a clear correlation between population and school funding and spending. The lowest spending seem to be low populated states but they are not the least populated states like Vermont, South Dakota and Wyoming. The District of Columbia being with this group surprised us as it is a heavily populated area but its special status as a non-state might have something to do with it. When looking at the states with the highest and lowest birthrates we see that southern states seem to have the biggest rates, Alabama, Arkansas, and Louisiana to name a few. All with birth rates above 25 percent. The states that have the smallest rate of teen pregnancy births were Maine, Massachusetts Connecticut and New Hampshire all with a rate less than 10 percent. The gap between Alabama and New Hampshire, the latter being the smallest rate and the former being the highest rate is 23.4 percent. Interestly, Vermont appeared among the lowest funding states while also having the third lowest birth rate.

### Question 3
Lastly to find if there was a correlatation between the amount of school funding a state receives and the amount of teen births they have, we took the values of the teen birth rate for each state along with their total expenditure for education and arranged them on a scatterplot to get a visual representation of the relationship. However, after creating the scattlerplot we found an r-value of 0.0104, demonstrating that there was no clear correlation between teen births and school funding, at least not on a state level.

## Conclusion
With the independent analysis established we wanted to see if these two factors affected each other. However using Vermont as a sign of the overall trend it appears our hypothesis was incorrect. There doesn't seem to be a correlation between teen pregnancies and school spending. The biggest correlations we found from the data was between state population and the amount of school funding they received, which makes sense as states with more people would need more money. But there was no clear indication that school funding had any effect on the teen birth rate. The states with the highest birth rates wer not among the lowest school funding amounts, and the states with the lowest birth rates were not among the ones with the highest funding amounts.
